ansible/roles/autologin/README.md, before:

# AutoLogin

One of the reasons that Ubuntu are considered so secure is because they require passwords to install 
software or to configure the system. They also require passwords to login to the computer. If you 
want to bypass the login password, there is an Auto Login function you can set and use.

## Enabling AutoLogin from command line for gdm3

1. For gdm3 display manager that’s in use by default in GNOME Desktop, open up a terminal window 
   (press Ctrl+Alt+T in Ubuntu), and run command to edit the config file:

   ```
   sudo editor /etc/gdm3/custom.conf
   ```

   Replace editor with your system text editor, or use nano that works in most Linux.

2. When file opens in text editor, add following line (or un-comment the lines by removing # at the 
   beginning) under **\[daemon]** section (replace user "ji" to yours):

   ```
   AutomaticLoginEnable = true
   AutomaticLogin = YOUR_USERNAME
   ```

   Or, use the lines below instead that auto-login with delay:

   ```
   TimedLoginEnable = true
   TimedLogin = YOUR_USERNAME
   TimedLoginDelay = 10
   ```

   Finally, press Ctrl+S to save file, Ctrl+X to exit. The change will apply in next boot.

## Links

https://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2024/05/enable-automatic-login-in-ubuntu-24-04-flavors/amp/

Commit message:

add README to all roles
KBOX-26: README für KrecBox überarbeiten

ansible/roles/autologin/README.md, after:

# AutoLogin

One of the reasons that Ubuntu are considered so secure is because they require passwords to install software or to
configure the system. They also require passwords to login to the computer. If you want to bypass the login password,
there is an Auto Login function you can set and use.

## Usage

The role is simply listed in the playbook, see code example.

```yaml
---
- hosts: localhost
  connection: local
  strategy: debug

  roles:
    - role: autologin
```

## Configuration

This role has no configuration options.

## Background information

### Enabling AutoLogin from command line for gdm3

1. For gdm3 display manager that’s in use by default in GNOME Desktop, open up a terminal window
   (press Ctrl+Alt+T in Ubuntu), and run command to edit the config file:

   ```
   sudo editor /etc/gdm3/custom.conf
   ```

   Replace editor with your system text editor, or use nano that works in most Linux.

2. When file opens in text editor, add following line (or un-comment the lines by removing # at the
   beginning) under **\[daemon]** section (replace user "ji" to yours):

   ```
   AutomaticLoginEnable = true
   AutomaticLogin = YOUR_USERNAME
   ```

   Or, use the lines below instead that auto-login with delay:

   ```
   TimedLoginEnable = true
   TimedLogin = YOUR_USERNAME
   TimedLoginDelay = 10
   ```

   Finally, press Ctrl+S to save file, Ctrl+X to exit. The change will apply in next boot.

### Links

https://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2024/05/enable-automatic-login-in-ubuntu-24-04-flavors/amp/
